

*  Extra critter models:  Gigans and cranial (plus finish Trigox.)
*  Extra humanoid models:  fat/skinny, young/old.
*  Mutant/primitive/infected textures.

16 commodity types to cover (everything else is minor)
  foodstuffs (3 types), spice
  carbons, metals, isotopes,
  parts, plastics, soma,
  inscriptions, decor, medicines,
  power, water/life support
  devices/outfits

What are the tradeoffs involved in this game?
  The packing problem of placement of services and infrastructure while
  accomodating aura structures.
  The personnel you choose to recruit, their personalities, and which missions
  you send them on at what times.
  The schools you invest in and large-scale politics, which become an
  increasingly binding commitment.

Quest ideas-
  There's a large existing crime-ridden settlement.
  There's an ancient relic guarded by powerful defences.
  There are rich resources contested by native tribes.
  There's a virgin wilderness filled with dangerous animals.
  Two small settlements need to be rebuilt and defended.
  An imperial fortress is held by a trio of champions.
  
  Action takes place on the planet of Diapsor/Diaspora.
  (Places named after Mars)
  Pavonis Sector, Vallis Sector, Olympus Sector,
  Elysium Sector, Acheron Sector, Tharsis Sector
  
  Other worlds/powers in setting:
  House Maia (artistry)     House Fomalhaut (health)
    Norusei system            Solipsus Vier system
  House Procyon (industry)  House Taygeta (trade)
    Parem V system            Axis Novena system
  House Altair (military)   House Suhail (ecology)
    Haliban system            Asra Novi system
  Calivor (capital/Senate)  Ceta Rho (krech)
  Urym Hive (imperial)      Albedo C97 (changeling)
  The Outer Sphere (strain) The Homeworld (jovian)
  Lightly-settled worlds:   Tovet, Xiridu, Inobe
  
  
  Altair Household
    The Prince Regnant Corhal Tezumec Altair, and Lord Physical Aban Maia
    War Master, Minister for Health, Minister for Accounts
    No issue
  Suhail Household
    The Duchess Solar Omuro Suhail, Colonel Amall Fadun, and Mysha 401A
    Planetologist, Minister for Propaganda, War Master
    Five heirs
  Procyon Household
    The Divine Empress Vledimiz Procyon XXIV, and Gestator-Surrogate Inyz-Algol
    Chief Artificer, Minister for Propaganda, Master of Assassins
    Three heirs
  Taygeta Household
    The Count Solar & CEO Yetzun Taygeta, and Operative Xe Nong Hti 'Eclipse'
    Minister for Accounts, Master of Assassins, Chief Artificer
    No heir, at least three unacknowledged seed-child
  Maia Household
    The Duke Solar Dabien Maia, and Lady Choral Jivi Man
    Minister for Propaganda, Minister for Health, Planetologist
    One heir
  Fomalhaut Household
    The Baron Albrech Fomalhaut Gamma, and Contract-Betrothed Xe Nong Ken
    Minister for Health, Planetologist, Chief Artificer
    No heir, two acknowledged seed-child



//
//  THESE WILL HAVE TO BE IMPLEMENTED LATER, I THINK

'Victory conditions'- the planet will be ceded to a particular house when all
rival forces have been driven out, forced into vassalhood (for a short time),
or allied with (for a longer period.)  You can continue to play on afterwards,
of course, either as a vassal, victor, or ally, gaining further mild prestige
or economic benefits.  Vassals and allies will, however, have more limited
demesnes.

Some of these structures need to be House-specific.  (Or based on alliance at
any rate...)
House Suhail-  Training House + Highborn Villas, no Excavation Site
House Procyon- Arena + Imperial Fane + Slums, no Holocade or Botanical Station
House Taygeta- Free Market + MCHQ, no Garrison
House Altair-  Counsel Chamber + Field Generator, no Enclosure

House Maia-      Sculptor + Psyon Choir + Counsel Chamber, heavy tribute levied
House Fomalhaut- Imperial Fane, gene bonus, homeworld migrants only, no support

(Contact)  Diplomacy + Spying & Marriage
(Strike)   Invasion + Capture & Recovery
(Recon)    Exploration + Settlement & Trade
(Security) Defence + Support & Policing


THE TRAINING HOUSE
  Music and Song and Dance.
  Physical pleasure/carnal delights.
  Mystic trance/guided meditation.
  Recruiting Companions.

THE CHILDREN'S CRECHE & DETENTION BLOC
  Physical Ed/Augment.  (boost vigour/brawn  , related skills)
  Sensory Ed/Augment.   (boost reflex/insight, related skills)
  Cognitive Ed/Augment. (boost intellect/will, related skills)
  Bunk arrangements. (reduced need for parental supervision)
  Virtual World.  (counts as entertainment + cognitive boost)
  Recruiting Monitors.
  
  What about the Detention Bloc?
  ...Allows captives to be stored/released.
  ...Allows rehab/re-education/re-programming.
  Psychoanalyst and Warden as standard.

THE COUNSEL CHAMBER & PREFECT OFFICE
  Better representation/legislation in the Senate
  More effective research & investigation
  Training for debate and negotiation
  Electing Counsellors  (must pass Psych Eval first)
  Recruiting Enforcers
  Recruiting Operatives



THE ARENA
  Animal capture/training
  Battlecage/grand melee/duelling
  Labyrinth/obstacle-course/stealth
  Better seating/entertainment values
  Recruiting Pit Fighters
  Recruiting Janissaries



THE BULLETIN BOARD
  ...Raises mood and loyalty of passers-by.
  ...Alerts citizens to new missions.
  ...Requires attention from Censors.

THE FREE MARKET & MCHQ
  ...Allows open trade in black market goods, including captives.
  ...Allows easy/sustained contact with Runners.
  2 Free Traders as standard.
  ...Allows open bounties to be placed on targets or target-types.
  ...Allows Mercenaries to be temporarily hired at will.
  Commander and 4-person Company as standard.
  
  Mech Trooper (Power armour), Rail Cannons, Commander, mercenaries.
  Complement to the Garrison.  Reserves are paid for, instead of
  coming out of your workforce.  Aces/Rail Drivers, perhaps.


ENCLOSURE
  Insulates large portions of terrain on worlds with minimal or toxic
  atmospheres, and permits construction over outcrops and seabeds.

SHIELD GENERATOR
  Extends the benefits of shield protection, atmospheric containment or
  cloaking fields to nominated local structures.

COLONY POD
  A startup base and supply cache air-dropped directly from orbit.



Logician Sanctum (the Archives)
  Imprinted              (basic trainees)
  Logician Judicant      (admin, diplomacy and legal process)
  Logician Projector     (hard science, history and futurology)
  Logician Observant     (intelligence and manipulation)
  Palatine               (psyonic bodyguards and peacekeepers)
  First Speaker          (head of the school)
  
  Based on:  Asimov's Foundations, Trek Vulcans, Dune Mentats,
             certain aspects of the Jedi and Firefly Alliance

Initiate Complex (the Imperial Fane)
  Ardent/Acolyte         (basic trainee)
  Initiate Myrmidone     (soldiers and assassins)
  Initiate Technologian  (arcane tech/relics, robotics and WoMD)
  Initiate Genealogist   (induction, genes and breeding)
  Oracle                 (static sentient super-computer)
  Reverend Father/Mother (head of the school)
  
  Based on:  A Canticle for Leibowitz, Dune Ixians, WH40K AdMech,
             HAL and the Monoliths from 2001, a dash of Bene Gesserit

Spacer Habitat (the Shipyard)
  Bondsman               (basic trainee)
  Spacer Caste Technical (maintenance, gene therapy)
  Spacer Caste Pilot     (piloting and mech combat)
  Spacer Caste Syndicant (diplomacy and trade)
  Ship Mother            (reproductive installation)
  Navigator              (head of the school)
  
  Based on:  Dune Spacing Guild, The Stars My Destination, 'Grey Aliens',
             The Hainish Ekumen, Asimov's Spacer worlds


//
//  These might be overly formal.  The collective/symbiont/shapers are either
//  less hierarchical or more chaotic than the above.  Different recruitment
//  strategies may be in order...


Collective Nexus (the Psyon Choir)
  Melded                 (basic trainee)
  Collective Gaian       (ecological balance and life support)
  Collective Integral    (maintenance of hardware and surgery)
  Collective Choral      (psyon abilities and emotional rapport)
  Android Replicant      (inherent pacifism and memory retention)
  Nexus Vessel           (head of the school)
  
  Based on:  More Than Human, Gaia and Galaxia from the Foundation series,
             aspects of Star Trek Borg and Stranger in a Strange Land

Symbiont Circle (the Former Node)
  Chosen                 (basic trainee)
  Symbiont of the Glaive (combat and infiltration suit)
  Symbiont of Threads    (influence over silicate ecology)
  Symbiont of the Core   (power/mineral output and manufacture)
  Archon                 (short-lifespan powerhouse)
  Demiurge               (head of the school)
  
  Based on:  Bleeding Edge Iron Man, Blood Music, possibly The Invincible
             and various anime biomech armours, including NGE Evas/Angels

Shaper Colony (the Sculptor's Studio)
  Chrysalid              (basic trainee)
  Shaper Metabolist      (physique, regen and crude psyonics)
  Shaper Strain Weaver   (ecology, animal-bonding and mutation)
  Shaper Face Dancer     (the arts, disguise, spying and seduction)
  Xenopath               (potent but unstable psyonic abilities)
  Host                   (head of the school)
  
  Based on:  Bene Tleilaxu from Dune, Last And First Men, Hyperion's Ousters,
             aspects of the Na'vi from Avatar and WH40K Chaos


School-specific abilities- possibility to work on:

Logician Training:
  Eidetic Blueprint (boosts assembly/construction)
  Estimation        (aids premonition efforts)
  Mnemonic Mantra   (aids learning/calming)
  Neural Meld       (psi interrogation/teaching)
  Combat Precision  (aids close/nonlethal combat)
  Augment Field     (psi boosts personal shields)

Initiate Training:
  Drone Uplink      (crafting drone servants)
  Device Interface  (augments artifacts)
  Stasis Field      (slows motion/reflexes)
  Command Routine   (controls enemy robots)
  Hibernate         (slows aging, safer travel)
  Red Phylactery    (memories intact if killed)

Spacer Training:
  Displacement      (assists evasion & mobility)
  Concentration     (aids valued cognitive skills)
  Homing Anchor     (instant teleport home)
  Transducer        (structural power & psi bonus)
  Subspace Medium   (off-planet communication)
  Star Gate         (aids ship & convoy travel)

Collective Training
  Empath            (aids human relationships)
  Homo Gestalt      (blend skills and experience)
  Fast Healing      (improves recovery)
  Choral Locus      (multiply group psi abilities)
  Tabula Rasa       (erases subject memories)
  Greater Gaia      (animals tame, more fertility)

Symbiont Training
  Arc Conduit       (electrical damage)
  Assimilate        (converts buildings/silicates)
  Secret Fire       (no need for sleep/food)
  Glaive Armour     (encases in resilient shell)
  Zero Point Energy (meltdown-level explosion)
  Archon Phase      (change into higher being)

Shaper Training
  Pheremonist       (aids animal relationships)
  Venom Secretion   (free, undetectable poison)
  Sculpt Flesh      (aid disguise/appearance)
  Instinct Psyon    (psi + bonus for stress)
  Retroviral Taint  (endow with mutations)
  Metamorphosis     (adopt different species)


IMPERIAL FANE
  Improves relations with the Empress and associated worlds
  Permits exchange of Atomics with other Houses
  Relics and artifacts may be stored and studied
  Imperial Guard recruited based on no. of items stored

SKY BRIDGE
  Greatly facilitates offworld trade and migration
  Allows customised spacecraft to be commissioned
  Establishes ground-based Shipyard for parts:
    Crew Quarters / Cargo Compartment
    Reactor Core / Propulsion Systems
    Weapons Array / Navigation Bridge
  Recruiting crews and Shipwrights

SCULPTOR'S STUDIO
  Plant life modified to provide free food and aesthetics
  Permits 'plastic surgery' via gene-grafting/prosthesis
  Sovereign can nominate/sponsor personnel for transformation
  Sculptor for free

PSYON CHOIR
  Permits formal training in psyonic abilities through technological
  augmentation or replication of natural abilities.
  Substantially augments the sovereign's Seat of Power.
  Recruiting Scientists
  Allows configuration of customised psyonic abilities:
    Duration/Range
    Traits affected/Effect type
    Artifact/Serum vehicles

FORMER NODE
  Assimilates nearby terrain and non-organic structures (friend or foe)
  Accelerates terraforming/land reclamation but imposes Silicate ecology
  Cannot be demolished once growth begins
  Copious output of minerals without pollution



The Krech:
  Helpmeet     (nursing, maintenance)
  Trailblazer  (exploration, first contact, 'light infantry')
  Tinker       (tech/manufacturing, medicine/chemistry)
  Spinner      (interior decor, plastics and tensiles)
  Warrior      (honour guard, 'heavy cavalry')
  Matriarch    (queen and all-mother)
  
  Based on:  District 9, shades of Alien/Starship Troopers/leafcutter ants, 
             The Humanx Commonwealth, The Mote In God's Eye

The Changelings:
  Mimic         (aesthetics/architecture/agriculture)
  Orgiast       (hedonism, liaison/human-relations, gene transfer)
  Devourer      (defence, infiltration and assimilation)
  Founder       (offworld diplomacy, command structure, genetic science)
  
  Based on:  Odo & Company from DS9, Octavia Butler's Oankali, The Thing(s),
             Solaris, bits of Three Worlds Collide

The Jovians:
  Gatekeeper    (astrogation/occasional trade/maintenance)
  Emissary      (counsel, negotiation, judgement, protection)
  
  Based on:  Babylon 5 Vorlons, The Culture Cycle's Dra'Azon/sublimation,
             Expedition's Eosapiens, Floaters from Cosmos, the Lovecraft Mythos






